This is part three.
And hopefully, the last part of building the about section.
So this is what we want to build.
So we have these three images here
and when hover one, it comes to the top
and it will have this green-like border around it.
And also, when we hover one, the other ones become smaller.
So you see, this one grows,
and the other ones become smaller.
Right? You see that?
Okay, so let's now do that.
And we start with the HTML again.
And so let me show you some more Emmet magic.
So we're gonna start with a div, called composition.
Because that's what our component is going to be called.
So, composition.
And now, right from this Emmet abbreviation
I can actually continue writing it like this.
So now, I am defining the children of this composition class
So what I want right now is to have an image
with a class composition photo.
So remember the BEM methodology.
So this is the block,
and this is the element. And then we have to repeat
the name of the block in the class name for the element.
So again, this is the element inside of the block.
Now these three images that we're gonna put here,
they are completely different.
Let me show you again.
They are, for example, at different positions.
And so, we need for each of them also, a modifier.
Remember?
So B-E-M stands for Block Element Modifier.
So we have to block the element.
And now let's also add a modifier.
And so we add a second class.
And in Emmet, in order to do that, we just use a second dot.
So, composition photo again.
And then remember
for the modifier, just dash dash then p1,
which stands for photo, or for picture, one.
Alright, and now we want it three times.
So we can just put parentheses around here.
Times three.
And now hit tab.
Alright, and here we go.
So, we have our div with the composition down
to three images. With the composition photo class,
the composition photo p1, and then we just have
to change two and three here.
But for now, let's just fill out these Emmet sources here.
So img and then, this one is called nat-1.
Actually, not that one.
So, jpg, okay?
So now the alt, let's simply call it Photo One.
And not make a big deal out of this alt.
And all I did now was to hit tab.
And it went to this next source definition here.
So img, nat, and as you can guess,
this one is going to be called the number two.
I hit tab again, and it goes right to the next place
where I want to write some text.
So this is really smart, really intelligent.
It knows what I want to do.
I hit tab again, and it's the next place
where I want to write some code, of course.
And now, the number three, and Photo 3.
And now that we just changed this here, so two and three.
And that's all markup.
So three images with three alt texts.
They all share the same element class.
Then each of them will have a different
modifier because each of them is a bit different.
Okay, now let's create a new file in here
in the components and call it composition.scss.
And then don't forget to edit here in the main
file, otherwise you may forget it a bit later.
So, import components/composition, and here we go.
So, save and close and here we go.
So what styles do we want for the composition?
Well, actually not much, at least not for now.
So let's continue with nesting further down, so photo.
So these are our elements.
So composition photo.
And actually, let's now take a look at how
they look like without any styling.
You see that it puts them one after the other
down here and down here.
Well, actually, I see that these are
very low-quality pictures and that's
not the one I want to use right now, so
let's charge this here to large; I think
I remember there was, like, a large version
of these, let me check it, large and large.
Yeah, that's much better.
So these are the high-quality images that we want.
And we're going to talk about responsive images
a bit later, where we can then change this
according to screen size and resolution
but let's leave that for later.
So anyway, what we want to do now is
to actually style these photos, and so let's
start with the width and set it to 55%.
And then we want them to have
box-shadow as well, zero next, and usually
this is always zero, at least almost
always, I would say.
Then 15 pixels here and also some
nice big blur of 40 pixels, so 4rem.
And the color black with, let's say, 40% opacity.
Okay, we want to give them a little border-radius as well.
That will look nice and clean and modern.
And, so, let's take a look at how
they are looking right now.
So, already looking close to what we
have in our original, but we want
them to be on top of one another.
And so, how do we actually do that?
Do you have an idea?
I would say that the best way to do it
is to use absolute positioning.
Okay?
So, let's do that.
So, position: absolute, and remember when we
set the position to absolute on an element,
these elements will be placed according
to a reference and the reference is the
first parent it encounters, which has its
position set to something.
Now, since we want this reference to be
the composition, so we want it to be
positioned according to the composition element, of course.
We set this one to position; relative.
Okay, and so now this says position; relative
and so the reference 0,0 coordinate will be
on the top left corner of the composition element, right?
So, let's now place these images
in different places, and the way we can do that
is to select them one by one.
And that's why we have these modifier classes, right?
So, p1 and the same for the others.
Well, let's copy it later, actually.
So, we just have to define left and the top left now.
So let's say left of zero and the top
of, well, I could do zero, but let's actually
2rem, and this will move it upwards, okay?
Let me just show you how it's going to look like.
So this is the one, and I did it so that
this image here is actually a bit on top
of this text so it's not in the same line.
This would maybe look a bit strange.
So now it's a bit up higher than this line of text.
So this one is at zero, minus two and the other
ones are at 0,0, which remember is this top
left corner of the composition element, which is
this one here behind all of this.
Okay, let's now take a look at how we have it here.
So this one and this one and then this one.
So, let me copy this, and you know why this
actually works, right?
Composition, then photo, then p1, p2, and p3.
So this helps us basically compose these class
names that we have here, like composition,
photo, p1, p2, p3.
So, let's put this one here to the right side
zero and what this will do is it will start
at the right side, so moving zero pixels from the
right side of the container, and then top,
let's put it 20 pixels from the top.
Okay, let's check it out again.
And alright, so that the second one, so let's now
change to the third one as well.
And I will put it even further down, so
10rem, and then from the left, let's put it
actually in a percentage value here, so why not
twenty% from the left.
And so here we are.
This is how it looks like.
Of course, once again, I encourage you
to play around with these numbers.
I already knew the way that I wanted
to place this, and so I knew how I wanted
the numbers to look like.
But you, of course, can experiment
with them and change them, right?
And now we're ready to implement
the hover effect that we saw here on the page.
So, again, it creates this green border
and it zooms in on this image and zooms
out on the remaining images as soon
as we hover over one of them, okay?
So let's now implement that.
Now, just one word about why we use all
these percentages here, okay?
It's because of something I talked
about a couple of lectures ago,
which are one of these ingredients
of responsive web design.
One of them is flexible images.
You always have to define the width
of images in percentages if possible.
This way, it will nicely scale with the view port.
The same thing applies with the left distance
that I wanted here in percentages.
Very quickly show it to you.
Without any media queries here already,
we see that this adapts nicely to the page.
Well, actually, this is not..
Sorry, this is the original version, of course.
So, please see that it decreases
and is not overlapping the text.
Of course, it's missing the media queries
to make it better on other screen sizes,
but it's more than enough for now.
What matters is that we already defined
it in percentages to start with.
Okay, but let's now implement the hover effect.
So, hover and what we want to happen
is, of course, the zooming.
So transform, scale, and double scale it
to 1.05, so not a big difference,
just like a subtle difference, but still clearly visible.
Then the box-shadow is also going to change.
Because if it's now bigger, it will give
the impression that it's closer up to the
user, so it should cast a bigger shadow.
So let's increase that shadow.
So bigger shadow, and also a bit darker.
And now the third thing was that it
overlaps all the other images.
So how do we do that?
How do we say that, if we have three
images, we want one of them on top of all the others?
Well, we use the z-index, right?
So let's set a z-index on all of the regular images.
Let's simply put something like 10,
it's not really important.
Then here, we set one that is higher.
So, z-index 20, for example.
So now, this one will always have a
higher z-index, and therefore, it should
be displayed on top.
Now, for the animation effect, a transition
of all the properties in .2 seconds.
Alright, let's take a look and, yeah.
What we just implemented actually works just fine.
Now let's take care of that green border stuff.
Now, you see that there's a space between
the border and the images.
It's not just a border, and that's
actually not so easy to implement.
At least, not with the CSS properties
that everyone knows.
That's what I'm going to show you:
some lesser known CSS properties.
So first up, we set the outline
property here in the hover state.
So outline, and let's say
that we want 15 pixels, so 1.5rem,
then we say solid and then the color.
So our green color.
And this is similar to setting it to a border.
So, if we had border, then it would look,
for now, it would look the same.
So, this is it, it would look like this.
But with the outline, we can do something
that we cannot with the border.
And that is, the outline offset.
So, outline offset.
We can say that we want 20 pixels here,
so 2rem and then it will give us
the space between the border or,
we should actually call it the outline.
And the element on which the outline is applied.
And then this is it.
It actually also zooms in a bit like the image.
So this is the effect that we have.
Well, not exactly.
Because what is missing here now is
that the outer images decrease in size.
So let's do that final thing as well.
Do you have any idea how we could
actually pull this off?
How we could implement this thing?
It's not really easy, but it's actually
just a one-line selector.
So what should the selector look like?
Maybe take a second and try to think about
what happens and how we could write down
the selector for this, okay?
So, I want you to pause the video and think about it.
And if you don't come up with a good solution,
it's no problem at all.
But what I want you to do here is to think.
Thinking is really important,
because CSS is not just some stupid or dull language.
You also have to think and come up with solutions
for these different stuff that you want to do.
So let's try that.
Alright, did you manage to do it?
Again, if not, no worries, it's absolutely no problem.
It's not really expected at this point,
because again, this is rather complex.
Now, this is how we do it.
So, hover on the composition actually.
We start with the hover state on the entire
composition, so as soon as we hover the composition
element, then select a photo that is nested inside
of this, and then select one that is not hovered.
And it is as simple as that.
Does that make sense?
Let me actually write this out for you
here outside as a comment.
Just to make it a bit more visible.
So, composition.
So, this is what this looks like.
When we hover the composition, we then
select the composition photo which is not hovered.
This may look a bit crazy, but it works.
And let me show it and prove it to you.
Transform, scale, and then scale it down a little bit.
Or maybe .9 so we can see it better.
And yep, so it works.
Notice that it happens
as soon as we enter any of these elements.
So the other ones are not hovered,
and so they shrink exactly like we determined.
And nine is actually a bit too much,
so let's set it to 95 again.
Reload, and that's the effect we were
looking for, right?
Let's compare it.
Yep, actually, this one is a bit more complete.
And that's because we just left
off one simple small thing.
Because in here, we don't only scale it,
but we can also translate it a bit in the y direction.
We can move it up a little bit.
So just move it up by about five pixels
and it will make the animation look
even a bit cooler, okay?
You see how it gets bigger and it
also comes up a bit?
That's it, alright.
Really cool.
And again, you could do all kinds of crazy stuff here.
You could rotate the elements
and do whatever you want, of course.
Transform all of the stuff, but that's
not what we're looking for here.
What we wanted to do is to section and
it's now done, it looks like the one
in our original version, a slightly different
text, but that's not a problem.
We hit our goal for these couple of lectures.
So I hope that you're enjoying the course.
If you are, I would appreciate some feedback,
of course, that's always 100% welcomed.
No matter if it's good feedback or not so good
maybe, maybe you have something to improve
in the course.
Just let me know.
Write me a message, an email, anything.
Just let me know what you think of the course.
Anyway, see you soon in the next lecture.